More details in Polkadots Intro (#711)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn-introduction.md

sidebar_label: Polkadot
---

Back in the early 2000's, when the internet was gaining popularity for the first time, the internet
featured read-only, static, basic webpages. The online connected world at the time was just the
beginning of virtual data, identities, and more. The internet during this time was also called the
Web 1.0.

As social media platforms and online businesses began to emerge, the internet transformed into the
Web 2.0. This upgraded internet, which we still use today, features dynamic, interactive webpages,
where users can read and write information plus publish their own for others to see. This version of
the web though, comes with downsides dealing with data control, privacy issues, and trust. This is
where the Web 3.0 comes into the picture.

The Web 3.0 is taking centralized applications and turning them into decentralized, trust-free
protocols. The goal is to transform the internet into a decentralized web, where users control their

> own data and identity in a trust-free environment. The Web 3.0 movement aims to removing
> intermediaries and building a trustless infrastructure. The Polkadot network is heading towards that
> future by building a secure ecosystem for decentralized applications (built with Blockchain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
own data and identity in a trust-free environment. The Web 3.0 movement aims to remove
intermediaries and build a trustless infrastructure. The Polkadot network is heading towards that
future by building a secure ecosystem for decentralized applications (built with blockchain
```

other. The shared security and validation logic of the Relay Chain provide the environment for
trust-free message passing that opens up true interoperability.

> To watch a short, beginner-friendly animation on Polkadot, check out our

> > [Polkadot Explainer video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_-k0xkooSlA&t=9s)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Polkadot Explainer video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_-k0xkooSlA)
```
